# Automation

### Orchestration

- **Orchestration :** The automation of multiple steps in a deployment process.
- Rapid Elasticity in cloud computing would not be possible without orchestration.
    - 3 types of **Orchestration**
        - **Resource Orchestration**
        - **Workload Orchestration**
        - **Service Orchestration**

### CI/CD

- **Continuous Integration :** A software development method where code updates are tested and committed to a development or build server/code repository rapidly.
- **Continuous Delivery :** A software development method where application and platform requirements are frequently tested and validates for immediate availability.
- **Continuous Deployment :** A software development method where application and platform updates are committed to production rapidly.

### DevSecOps

- **DevOps** : An organizational culture shift that combines software development and systems operation by referring to the practice of integrating the two disciplines within a company.
- Operations and developers can build, test and release software faster and more reliably.
- **DevSecOps** : A combination of software, development, security operations and system operations by integrating each discipline with the others.
- DevSecOps utilized a shift-left mindset.

### IAC

- **Infrastructure as Code(IAC)** : A provisioning architecture in which deployment of resources is performed by scripted automation and Orchestration.
- Robust orchestration can lower overall IT costs, speed up deployments and increase security.
- **Snowflake Systems** : Any systems that is different in its configurations compared to a standard template within an infrastructure as code architecture.
- **Idempotence :** A property of IAC that an automation or orchestration action always produces the same result, regardless of the component’s previous state.

### Machine Learning

- **Artificial Intelligence(AI) :** The science of creating machines with the ability to develop problem solving and analysis strategies without significant human direction or intervention.
- **Machine Learning(ML) :** A component of AI that enables a machine to develop strategies for solving a task given a labeled dataset where features have been manually identified but without further explicit instructions.
    - Machine Learning is only as good as the datasets used to train it.
- **Artificial Neural Network (ANN) :** An architecture of input, hidden and output layers that can perform algorithmic analysis of a dataset to achieve outcome objectives.
- **Deep Learning :** A refinement of machine learning that enables a machine to develop strategies for solving a task given a labeled dataset and without further explicit instructions.