# Cloud Security

### Cloud Computing

- A way of offering on demand services that extend the traditional capabilities of a computer or a network.
- **Cloud Computing** relies on virtualization to gain efficiencies and cost savings.
- **Hyperconvergence** allows providers to fully integrate the storage, network and servers
- **Virtual Desktop Infrastructure(VDI)** : VDI allows a cloud provider to offer a full desktop operating system to an end user from a centralized server.

### Cloud Types

- **Public Cloud** : A service provider makes resource available to the end users over the internet.
    - For eg : Google Drive
- **Private Cloud** : A company creates its own cloud environment that only it can utilize as an internal enterprise resource.
    - Private Cloud is chosen when is security is more important than cost.
- **Hybrid Cloud** : Combination of public and private.
    - Some resources are public and some are private to maintain security.
- **Community Cloud** : Resources and costs are shared among several different organizations who have common service needs.

### As a Service

- **Cloud computing** comes with four different types of services
    - **Software As A Service(SaaS)** : Provides all the hardware, operating systems, software, and applications needed for a complete service to be delivered.
    - **Infrastructure As A Service(IaaS)** : Provides all the hardware, operating system, and backend software needed in order to develop your own software or service.
    - **Platform As A Service(PaaS)** : Provides your organization with the hardware and software needed for a specific service to operate.
    - **Security As A Service(SECaaS)** : Provides your organization with various types of security services without the need to maintain a cybersecurity staff.
        - Anti Malware solutions were one of the SECaaS products.
        - Some solutions may not scan all the files on your system.
        - Cloud based vulnerability scans can better provide the attacker’s perspective.
- **Sandboxing** : Utilizes separate virtual networks to allow security professionals to test suspicious or malicious files.

### Cloud Security

- If the physical server crashes, it can affect all the servers hosted on it.
- Collocated Data can become a security risk.
- Configure, manage and audit user access to virtualized servers.
- Updation in cloud servers.
- Utilizing Cloud securely requires good security policies.
- Data remnants may be left behind after deprovisioning.

### Defending Servers

- **File Servers** : Servers used to store, transfer, migrate, synchronize, and archive files for your organization.
- **Email servers** are a frequent target of attacks for the data they hold.
- **Web Servers** should be placed in your DMZ
- **FTP Server** : A specialized type of file server that is used to host files for distribution across the web.
    - should be configured to require TLS connections
- **Domain Controller** : A server that acts as a central repository of all the user accounts and their associated passwords for the network.
    - Active Directory is targeted for privileged escalation and lateral movement.

### Cloud-based Infrastructure

- **Cloud-based infrastructure** must be configured to provide the same level of security as a local solution.
- **Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) :** A private network segment made available to a single cloud consumer within a public cloud.
- The consumer is responsible for configuring the IP address and routing within the cloud.
- VPC is typically used to provision internet-accessible applications that need to be accessed from geographically remote sites.

### CASB

- **Cloud Access Security Broker :** Enterprise management software designed to mediate access to cloud services by user across all types of devices. ****
- Responsibilities of CASB
    - Single sign-on
    - Malware and rogue device detection
    - Monitor/audit user activity
    - Mitigate Data Exfiltration
- Cloud Access Service Brokers provide visibility into how client and other network nodes use cloud services.
- **Application Programming Interface** : A method that uses the broker’s connections between the cloud service and the cloud consumer.

### API

- **Application Programming Interface(API)** : A library of programming utilities used to enable software developers to access functions of another applications.
- API allow for the automated administration, management, and monitoring of a cloud service.

### FAAS and Serverless

- **FAAS - Function as a Service**
    - A cloud service model that supports serverless software architecture by provisioning runtime containers in which code is executed in a particular programming language.
- **Serverless** : A software architecture that runs functions within virtualized runtime containers in a cloud rather than on dedicated server instances.
- **Serverless** depends on orchestration.

### Cloud Threats

- **Insecure API**
    - An API must only be used over an encrypted channel(HTTPS).
    - Data received by an API must pass server-side validation routines.
- **Improper Key Management**
    - APIs should use secure authentication and authorization such as SAML or OAuth/OIDC before accessing data.
    - Do not hardcode or embed a key into the source code.
    - Delete Unnecessary Keys and regenerate Keys when moving into a production environment.
- **Logging and Monitoring**
    - Software as a Service may not supply access to log files or monitoring files.
    - Logs must be copied to non-elastic storage for long-term retention.
- **Unprotected Storage**
    - Cloud storage containers are referred to as buckets or blobs.