# Hashing

### Introduction

- **Hashing :** A one-way cryptographic function which takes an input and produces a unique message digest.
- The most common hashing algorithm used is *MD5*.
- **Message Digest 5 (MD5):** Algorithm that creates a fixed-length 128-bit hash value unique to the input file.
    - **Collision :** Condition that occurs when two different files create the same hash digest.
- **Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA-1)** : Algorithm that creates a fixed-length 160-bit hash value unique to the input file.
- **Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA-2) :** Family of algorithms that includes *SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-348, and SHA-512.*
- **Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA-3) :** Family of algorithms that creates hash digest between 224-bits and 512-bits, Major increase in SHA-3 from SHA-2 is it uses 120 rounds of computations.
- **RACE Integrity Primitive Evaluation Message Digest (RIPEMD)** : An open-source hash algorithm that creates a unique 160-bit, 256-bit, or 320-bit message digest for each unique file.
- **Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)** : Uses a hash algorithm to create a level of assurance as to the integrity and authenticity of a given message or file.
    - **HMAC** uses other hashing algorithms like *HMAC-MD5, HMAC-SHA1, HMAC-SHA256.*
- *Digital signatures* prevent collisions from being used to spoof the integrity of a message.
- *Digital signatures* use either DSA, RS, ECDSA, or SHA.
- **Code Signing :** Uses digital signatures to provide an assurance that the software code has not been modified after it was submitted by the developer.
- **LANMAN (LM Hash)** : Original version of password hashing used by windows that uses DES and is limited to 14 characters.
- **NT LAN Manager Hash (NTLM Hash)** : Replacement to LM Hash that uses RC4 and was released with windows NT 3.1 in 1993.
- **NTLMv2 Hash** : Replacement to NTLM Hash that uses HMAC-MD5 and is considered difficult to crack.
- **NTLMv2** is used when you do not have a domain with kerberos for authentication.

### Hashing Attacks

- **Pass the Hash** : A technique that allows an attacker to authenticate to a remote server or service by using the underlying NTLM or LM Has instead of requiring the associated plaintext password.
    - Pass the Hash is difficult to defend against.
- **Mimikatz :** A penetration testing tool used to automate the harvesting of hashes and conducting the Pass the Hash attack.
- Preventing Pass the Hash attack
    - Only use a trusted OS.
    - Patch/update workstations.
    - Use multifactor authentication.
    - Use Least Privilege.
- **Birthday Attack :** Technique used by an attacker to find two different messages that have to same identical hash digest.

### Increasing Hash Security

- **Key Stretching :** A technique that is used to mitigate a weaker key by increasing the time needed to crack it.
    - WPA,WPA2,PGP,bcrypt, and other algorithms utilize key stretching.
- **Salting :** Adding random data into a one-way cryptographic hash to help protect against password cracking techniques.
    - A “nonce (Number Used Once)” is used to prevent password reuse.