# Securing Networks

### Introduction

- Wired and Wireless networks are vulnerable to attacks.
- **Securing Wireless and Wired Networks**

### Securing Network Devices

- Network Devices include switches, routers, firewalls and more.
- Each devices have their own vulnerabilities
- **Default Accounts :** A user or administrator-level account that is installed on a device by the manufacturer during production.
- **Weak Passwords :** A password should be long, strong and complex. This should require least 14 characters with a mix of uppercase, lowercase and special characters.
- **Privilege Escalation** : Occurs when an user is able to gain the rights of another user or administrator.
- **Backdoor** : A way of bypassing normal authentication in a system.
- An IPS, proper firewall configs, network segmentation, and firmware updates are the key to having network security.

### Securing Network Media

- **Network Media** : Copper, fiber optic and coaxial cabling used as the connectivity method in a wired network.
- **Electromagnetic Interference(EMI)** : A disturbance that can affect electrical circuits, devices and cables due to radiation or electromagnetic radiation.
    - Shielding the cables or the source can minimize EMI.
- **Radio Frequency Interference(RFI)** : A disturbance that can affect electrical circuits, devices and cables due to AM/FM transmission or cell towers.
    - RFI causes more interference in wireless networks.
- **Crosstalk** : Occurs when a signal transmitted on one copper wire creates and undesired effect on another wire.
- UTP is commonly used more often than STP.
- **Data Emanation** : The EMI generated by a network cable or device when transmitting.
- **Protected Distribution System(PDS)** : Secured system of cable management to ensure that the wired network remains free from eavesdropping, tapping, data emanations and other threats.

### Securing Wireless Devices

- **Service Set Identifier** : Uniquely identifies the network and is the name of the WAP used by the Clients.
- Disabling SSID broadcast is good security.
- **Rogue Access Point** : An unauthorized WAP or wireless router that allows access to the secure network.
- **Evil Twin** : A rogue, counterfeit and unauthorized WAP with the same SSID as your valid one.

### Wireless Encryption

- Encryption of data in transit is paramount to security.
- **Pre-Shared Key** : Same encryption key is used by the access point and the client.
- There are 3 main types of encryption in wireless security
    - **WEP - Wired Equivalent Privacy :** Original 802.11 wireless security standard that claims to be as secure as a wired network.
    - **WPA - WiFi Protected Access :** Replacement for WEP which uses TKIP, Message Integrity Check(MIC) and RC4 encryption. ****
    - **WPA2 - WiFi Protected Access v2 :** 802.11i standard to provide better wireless security featuring AES with a 128-bit Key, CCMP and integrity checking.   ****
        
        <aside>
        💡 Exam Tips : if you are asked about - Look for the answer with :
        
        Open -No security or protection provided
        
        WEP  -IV
        
        WPA  -TKIP and RC4
        
        WPA2 -CCMP and AES 
        
        </aside>
        
- If we make operations easier, then security is reduced.
- **WiFi Protected Setup(WPS)** : Automated encryption setup for wireless networks at a push of a button, but is severely flawed and vulnerable.
- **ALWAYS DISABLE WPS!**
- **VPN** and **Encryptions** are always a good idea.

### Wireless Access Points

- Wireless security also relies upon proper WAP placement.
- Wireless B,G and N use a 2.4 GHz signal.
- Wireless A,N and AC use a 5.0 GHz signal.
- 2.4 GHz signals can travel further than 5 GHz.
- **Jamming** : Intentional radio frequency interference targeting your wireless network to cause a denial of service condition.
- Wireless site survey software and spectrum analyzers can help identify jamming and interference.
- **Access Point Isolation (AP)** : Creates network segment for each client when it connects to prevent them from communicating with other clients on the network.

### Wireless Attacks

- **War Driving** : Act of searching for wireless networks by driving around until you find them.
- Attackers can use wireless survey or open source attack tools.
- **War Chalking** : Act of physically drawing symbols in public places to denote the open, closed and protected networks in range.
- **IV Attack** : Occurs when an attacker observes the operation of a cipher being used with several different keys and finds a mathematical relationship between those keys to determine the clear text data.
- **WiFi Disassociation Attack** : Attack that targets an individual client connected to a network, forces it offline by deauthenticating it, and then captures the handshake when it reconnects.

### WPA3

- **Wi-Fi Protected Access 3** **(WPA3)** was introduced in 2018 to strengthen WPA2.
- WPA3 has an equivalent cryptographic strength of 192bits in WPA3-Enterprise Mode.
- **WPA3 - Enterprise Mode** : Uses AES-256 encryption with a SHA-384 hash for integrity checking.
- **WPA3 - Personal Mode** : Uses CCMP-128 as the minimum encryption required for secure connectivity.
- Largest Improvement in WPA3 is the removal of the Pre-Shared Key(PSK) exchange.
- **Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE)** : A secure password-based authentication and password-authenticated key agreement method.
    - This provides **forward secrecy**.
- **Perfect Forward Secrecy or Forward Secrecy** : A feature of Key agreement protocols(like SAE) that provides assurances that session keys will not be compromised even if long-term secrets used on the session key exchange are compromised.

### Other Wireless Technologies

- **Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)** : Devices that use a radio frequency signal to transmit identifying information about the devices or token holder.
    - **RFID** can operate from 10cm to 200 meters depending on the device.
- **Near Field Communication (NFC)** : Allows two devices to transmit information when they are within close range through automated pairing and transmission.
    - **NFC** Devices are operated within 4cm from each other.